Amanda Hernández
Student Journalist

* amandavhernan@gmail.com
* LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/amandavhernan/
* Twitter: https://twitter.com/amandavhernan
* GitHub: https://github.com/amandavhernan

Experience

Audience Engagement Journalist
Howard Center for Investigative Journalism 
June 2021 – Present
Conduct audience and historical research for an investigative project examining the role white-owned newspapers played in aiding and abetting racial terror. Develop content and publishing plans.

DBK en español Editor, Assistant News Editor and Senior Staff Writer
The Diamondback
July 2019 – Present
Cover breaking and general news stories for this daily publication. Edit English and Spanish content during late-night shifts twice a week. Promote Spanish reporting and translations; previously justice, identity and equity issues and student government reporter. 

Politics NOW Intern
USA Today, Washington D.C. Bureau
October 2020 – May 2021
Wrote explainers on the latest political developments. Assisted staff reporters with research and news coverage, including the 2020 election. Managed the Twitter and Instagram accounts using TweetDeck and Later. Designed graphic cards with Canva and Photoshop. 

Teaching Assistant
University of Maryland, Philip Merrill College of Journalism
August 2020 – May 2021
Tracked class attendance and participation for an introductory journalism history course. Oversaw student discussion. Managed and graded media participation projects and news quizzes.

Editor-in-Chief
La Voz Unida 
November 2019 – April 2021
Founded La Voz Unida, a bilingual Spanish language online student-run newspaper. Oversaw section editors and publication of stories. Published stories on Wordpress powered website. Facilitated merger with The Diamondback’s DBK en español section. 

Editorial Intern
PublicSource
September 2020 – December 2020
Wrote an article about how Pittsburgh homeless shelters changed winter operations amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Updated COVID-19 datasets, graphics and live blog with newly released counts and figures. Fact-checked articles. Assisted staff reporters with special projects and research.

General Assignment Editor
Stories Beneath the Shell
September 2019 – December 2020
Led weekly general assignment meetings and assigned stories to freelance reporters. Edited and fact-checked roughly five stories every week for consistency and grammar using AP Style. Oversaw publication of freelance stories; previously head of copy editing and copy editor. 

Communications and Media Relations Intern
University of Maryland, Office of Community Engagement
September 2019 – May 2020
Support greater College Park outreach initiatives by crafting press releases, designing social media posts and updating social media or university website with events. Review MailChimp and social media analytics. 

Education

* Bachelor of Arts, Multiplatform Journalism, University of Maryland, May 2023
* Bachelor of Science, Information Science, University of Maryland, May 2023

Skills

* Fluent in English and Spanish
* Data visualization with Datawrapper and Infogram
* Coding experience in HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Python
* Social media and analytics with TweetDeck, Google Analytics and Later